README.md, before:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# DevOps-Zero2Hero

- The aim of this project is  to create a startup project that can be used to learn the concepts of DevOps.
- The project will contain DevOps Learning labs.

---
![](resources/images/cover.png)
---

### Table of Contents 

- [](#)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [How to contribute to this project?](#how-to-contribute-to-this-project)
  - [Contribution sample](#contribution-sample)
    - [Fork the repository](#fork-the-repository)

---

### How to contribute to this project?

- Fork the repository.
  - Click on the `Fork` and fork this project to your GitHub account.
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine.
  ```sh
  # Clone the forked repository to your local machine
  git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/DevOps-Zero2Hero.git

  # Verify that the project is cloned successfully by checking 
  # the files in the project directory.
  
  # Navigate to the project directory and verify the files.
  cd DevOps-Zero2Hero 
  
  # Verify the files in the project directory.
  git remote -v
  ```

- Contribute to the project.
  - Make changes locally on your local machine (clone).
  - create a new branch (git checkout -b your-branch-name)
  - Commit the changes. (git add . followed by: git commit -m "Describe your changes here")
  - Push the changes to your forked repository. (git push origin your-branch-name)
  - Create a pull request to the main repository.
  - Add yourself to the list of contributors.
  - Follow the instructions in the pull request to merge your changes.
  - Wait for the project maintainers to review and merge your pull request.

### Contribution sample

#### Fork the repository

- Click on the `Fork` and fork this project to your GitHub account.  
  https://github.com/nirgeier/DevOps-Zero2Hero/fork
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine.
  ```sh
  $ git clone git@github.com:<your-account-username>/DevOps-Zero2Hero.git
  ```
- Create branch for your changes.
  ```sh
  $ git checkout -b <your-branch-name>
  ```
- Make changes locally on your local machine (clone).
- Add the changes to your staging area
  ```sh
  $ git add .
  ```
- Commit the changes
  ```sh 
  $ git commit -m "Describe your changes here"
  ```
- Push the changes to your forked repository.
  ```sh
  $ git push origin <your-branch-name>
  ```
- Create a pull request to the main repository.

---

- Feel free to contribute to the project
- Use the [discussions](https://github.com/nirgeier/DevOps-Zero2Hero/discussions) tab to discuss the project.

Thank it. AS simple as that!

Commit message:

Added automation for creating content readme

README.md, after:

<!-- omit in toc -->
# DevOps-Zero2Hero

- The aim of this project is to collect as many resources as possible that users can use to DevOps.
- The project will contain DevOps Learning labs.

---

<div align="center">
  <img src="resources/images/logo-rounded.png" alt="DevOps-Zero2Hero" width="500">
</div>

---

<!-- omit in toc -->
### Table of Contents 
- [How to contribute to this project?](#how-to-contribute-to-this-project)
  - [Detailed instructions how to contribute](#detailed-instructions-how-to-contribute)


---

### How to contribute to this project?

- **Fork** the repository.
  - Click on the `Fork` and fork this project to your GitHub account.
- **Clone** the forked repository to your local machine.
  ```sh
  # Clone the forked repository to your local machine
  git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/DevOps-Zero2Hero.git
  
  # Navigate to the project directory and verify the files.
  cd DevOps-Zero2Hero 

  # Verify that the project is cloned successfully by checking 
  # the files in the project directory.
  ls -la

  # Verify the remote repository.
  git remote -v
  ```

- **Contribute** to the project.
  - Make changes locally on your local machine (clone).
  - Create a new branch with meaningfull name (git checkout -b your-branch-name)
  - **Add & Commit** the changes. (git add . && git commit -m "Describe your changes")
  - **Push** the changes to your forked repository. (git push origin your-branch-name)
  - Create a **pull request** to the main repository main branch.
  - When the PR is merged you will automaticcly added to the list of contributors.
  - Follow the instructions in the pull request to merge your changes.
  - Wait for the project maintainers to review and merge your pull request.

---

#### Detailed instructions how to contribute

- Click on the `Fork` and fork this project to your GitHub account.  
  https://github.com/nirgeier/DevOps-Zero2Hero/fork
- Clone the forked repository to your local machine.
  ```sh
  $ git clone git@github.com:<your-account-username>/DevOps-Zero2Hero.git
  ```
- Create branch for your changes.
  ```sh
  $ git checkout -b <your-branch-name>
  ```
- Make changes locally on your local machine (clone).
- Add the changes to your staging area
  ```sh
  $ git add .
  ```
- Commit the changes
  ```sh 
  $ git commit -m "Describe your changes here"
  ```
- Push the changes to your forked repository.
  ```sh
  $ git push origin <your-branch-name>
  ```
- Create a pull request to the main repository.

---

- Use the [discussions](https://github.com/nirgeier/DevOps-Zero2Hero/discussions) tab to discuss the project.

Thank it. AS simple as that!
